README.md, before:

# chatz

As a user I want to create a new chat & store it in database

Create chat

chat:{

    users:[userId, userId],

    messages:{
        type: [{userName: 'Munish', message: 'Hey', createdAt: '2023-22-01'}, {userName: 'Munish', message: 'Hey', createdAt: '2023-22-01'}, ]
    }

}

As a user I want to create a new chat & store it in both users field

Create chat
Store chat id in both users

As I create a chat

New chat should be created if no chat is already created with the same users

If user doesn't exist in the friendsList ->

then a new chat Id will be created

& new chat id will be inserted in both the users document

As page loads

request is made to fetch all the chats of the current user
chats: [{user: [], messages: [{}]}]

after all the chats is recieved all the chats is rendered on the dashboard

As page loads fetch all the chats & render

If a message is sent

Message should be sent to

User should get option to set name at the dashboard

Send only required information about user & chat in the response

Load all chats recieved from the backend

Render all contacts box in the contacts section

Loop the array & add into markup & insert HTML on the contacts list section

SRP
DRY
Pure Functions
YAGNI
KISS

On load join room
As I submit message the message will be pushed in the database & an event will be released for the specific room

As I recieve submitMessage request I will push the message in specific chat id
Will emit a message in the contact user email room
function emitServerMessageUpdateMessage
function submitMessage
function sendLastMessage

contactList.onClick(handler(chatId))

state.user.chat.find(chatId)

loadChat(chat){

}

On request of addMessage ->
Add message to the database of the current chat id
release an event to room of the other user for the new message

addMessage(req, res, next) => {
req.body.chatId
req.body.message
add message to chat id

    release event to contactId group with message, chatId

}

Commit message:

Add socket event emitter for newChat creation

README.md, after:

# chatz

As a user I want to create a new chat & store it in database

Create chat

chat:{

    users:[userId, userId],

    messages:{
        type: [{userName: 'Munish', message: 'Hey', createdAt: '2023-22-01'}, {userName: 'Munish', message: 'Hey', createdAt: '2023-22-01'}, ]
    }

}

As a user I want to create a new chat & store it in both users field

Create chat
Store chat id in both users

As I create a chat

New chat should be created if no chat is already created with the same users

If user doesn't exist in the friendsList ->

then a new chat Id will be created

& new chat id will be inserted in both the users document

As page loads

request is made to fetch all the chats of the current user
chats: [{user: [], messages: [{}]}]

after all the chats is recieved all the chats is rendered on the dashboard

As page loads fetch all the chats & render

If a message is sent

Message should be sent to

User should get option to set name at the dashboard

Send only required information about user & chat in the response

Load all chats recieved from the backend

Render all contacts box in the contacts section

Loop the array & add into markup & insert HTML on the contacts list section

SRP
DRY
Pure Functions
YAGNI
KISS

On load join room
As I submit message the message will be pushed in the database & an event will be released for the specific room

As I recieve submitMessage request I will push the message in specific chat id
Will emit a message in the contact user email room
function emitServerMessageUpdateMessage
function submitMessage
function sendLastMessage

contactList.onClick(handler(chatId))

state.user.chat.find(chatId)

loadChat(chat){

}

On request of addMessage ->
Add message to the database of the current chat id
release an event to room of the other user for the new message

addMessage(req, res, next) => {
req.body.chatId
req.body.message
add message to chat id
release event to contactId group with message, chatId
}

Recieved new message socket event
add message to the chatId group

render all messages

onSubmit of the form
take the message, current chatId
send to database -> recieved new message object push it to the chat id -> if currentChatId != chatId highlight the contact
-> if current chat id === chatId renderNewMessages

Update newly created chat after creation
